Greetings everyone, and welcome again.
If you haven't taken any of my courses,
my name is Scott Tate and I'm a 10‑year cloud architect at blndspt.com.
As both a student and a teacher of all things cloud,
I'm thrilled to be with you on this journey today.
This course is the third course in the Managing AWS
Infrastructure with TypeScript learning path,
so we're going to go over as many advanced topics as
I can cram into a quick 2 hours.
Whether you're an AWS developer, DevOps engineer,
infrastructure engineer or just a burgeoning AWS enthusiast,
this course will help bring your CDK mastery all together to
ensure that you and your organization wield the power of the
CDK as efficiently as possible.
Stick with me,
and I'll guide you through all tools and techniques
necessary to become a master of the AWS CDK.
So, why exactly are we here?
With the CDK including such a short barrier to entry,
why would we need courses like this in the first place?
Well, first and foremost is you're here today.
I think we can agree that the AWS CDK is one of the
greatest new infrastructure as code, or IaC,
weapons in AWS's development arsenal.
And in that regard,
there just aren't that many resources out there that discuss advanced
techniques involving responsible development patterns.
To add to that fact,
there are an infinite number of Hello World examples out there,
but have you really run across a plethora of resources that
have shown you how to put it all together?
I know I haven't.
That's exactly what we're going to focus on in this course.
Once we get through some introductory principles and
lay a foundation for the course,
we're going to dive right into some very challenging
concepts in stacks and stacks patterns.
If you have any experience with CloudFormation,
you know how complex the stack hierarchy can get with nesting and layering.
I'm also going to go into the mystical concept of stack
versus construct versus pattern and lay out how it might
best fit in your organization.
We'll then dive into the area of multi‑environment applications and talk about
customizing your stack to deploy to multiple environments and regions using
customized environment characteristics and interfaces.
I'll even show you how to use code pipeline to handle
multi‑environment deployment characteristics.
After that,
we dive into some well‑architected framework principles to help you avoid
the pitfalls of tight coupling in CDK applications.
Making the mistake of building an overly constraining CDK application can
lead you down paths that can be hard to come back from.
In that regard,
we'll then dive into the exciting concept of building custom
constructs and storing them in your own construct libraries
poised for immediate reuse.
Then using aspects and a few other fun techniques,
we'll talk a bit about enforcing security best practices in CDK applications.
And finally, as a coup de grâce of sorts,
I'm going to bring it all together by showing you what might
truly be the Shangri‑La of CDK usage through a UI‑driven CDK
environment management application.
There's a lot to cover in a short period of time, so let's get going.
Now I know what you're thinking.
Geez,
I read the first two books in this Audible series and
the author changed the narrator on me.
Everything's going to be all different now.
Well, that couldn't be farther from the truth.
I'm actually good friends with David Tucker.
He's one of my favorite authors in the catalog.
David and I are collaborating on this learning path,
and I think you'll find that we complement each other nicely.
And while I certainly don't like talking about myself,
and I despise putting headshots on a slide,
hence the larger picture of my company avatar,
Spot, above my own picture,
it's worth telling you a bit about myself for the sake of this course.
I run blndspt.com where I'm a cloud architect, among other things.
And while Spot won't be making as many appearances in the course,
I'll do my best to represent his enthusiasm and commitment to
ensuring that learning be a fun activity.
There we go.
Spot's rocking is AWS T‑shirt.
That's better.
In all seriousness, without dating myself too badly,
I've been heavily involved in AWS and Azure now for as long as I can remember.
Can you say Visual InterDev?
Besides that, my background was a combination of software development,
DevOps, and infrastructure.
You'll be interested to know that I'm also a heavy Pluralsight student as well.
I've likely taken over 100 courses myself in the last 10 or 12 years.
Doesn't that sound right up the proverbial alley for infrastructure as code?
Before we get started,
it's definitely worth stating again that this course is
intended for a more advanced audience.
To that end, some reasonable knowledge will be necessary to follow along.
This will include at least an intermediate proficiency with AWS in general,
including EC2, Lambda, VPC concepts, and a lot more.
As we'll be using TypeScript for the CDK development in the course,
a solid proficiency in building applications with
TypeScript is highly recommended.
And it goes a bit without saying, knowledge of the CDK is a requirement,
and I'm not going to go over the very basic concepts here.
Hopefully you've taken the other courses prior to diving into this one.
Lastly, although sometimes it's a hard one,
it's not always that easy to get along with CDK development
without some knowledge of CloudFormation.
After all, CDK synthesizes into CloudFormation JSON,
so it's important to know what's going on in the back end as you build IaC.
If you've found yourself here without at least
intermediate skills in any of those areas,
I recommend the plethora of new courses from some of my
favorite authors here at Pluralsight.
Let's face it, if you're new to CDK,
the best place to backtrack is obviously going to be the first few
courses in the learning path by David Tucker.
As I said earlier, David and I are collaborating on these courses,
so I promise going back and taking those will dial you in to
be as ready as possible for this course.
And again, if you just aren't that familiar with CloudFormation,
I highly recommend taking some time to get introduced.
There are a handful of courses in the catalog from some of my favorite
authors you can find by simply searching for CloudFormation.
In fact,
I'm going to use some of the examples in Ben Piper's
Architecting for Operational Excellence course,
and I can tell you I've spent hours upon hours in Ryan
Lewis's very entertaining courses.
We've found that most developers in CDK have embraced TypeScript.
All the examples and demos I'll use will be in TypeScript,
so if you're still rusty,
take a bit and go watch some of Brice Wilson's courses on the subject.
And last, but not least,
keep in mind that CDK is a code‑based generator of AWS resources.
If you don't have a significantly wide experience with these,
go back and look at David Tucker's Core Services and
Fundamental Cloud Concepts courses.
After all, AWS currently has something like 170 to 180 resources,
so it's worth at least knowing what each can do for you.
So, why are we here again?
I mean, if the CDK is easy to learn, don't we have everything we need?
Whoa, horsey.
It's a well‑known fact that the popularity of the CDK is
growing faster than the universe itself.
Okay, that hasn't been proven yet, but it seems to be true.
I mean, Amazon is putting so much effort into it,
the contribution speed of the framework rivals the old adage of ludicrous speed.
We have a joke in my office that the CDK version is a spinning clock,
and that if you take too long of a lunch,
your npm versions will be out of date when you get back from lunch.
So yes, the CDK is popular, and yes, the CDK is powerful,
but dangerously so actually.
Remember that old re:Invent recording from Amazon where
Martin Beeby showed you how easy it was to initialize a
project and create a construct?
I'm sure we've all seen that video.
I love it because of his accent and his constant pronunciation of routers.
So yes,
a simple CDK init with a one‑line VPC instantiation
synthesizes over 450 lines of CloudFormation JSON.
Okay, in all fairness, that's nine physical lines; however,
eight of the nine of them are automatically generated,
and one of them is actually whitespace.
What's the ratio of 8 to 450 again?
It was Lord Acton in the 19th Century that said power corrupts,
but absolute power corrupts absolutely.
Before we pick up that big old hammer,
shouldn't we know how to use it first appropriately? What
might the repercussions be if we don't?
You guessed it, stacks that can outweigh the sun.
Monolith doesn't even begin to describe this. Runaway
stacks inherently promote poor design,
poor characteristics or ability to reuse assets,
and inevitably they just cost more money.
My favorite comment I get around ecosystems like this generally
come from CFOs asking why the AWS bill is so high.
They say, I thought you said being in the cloud was cheaper.
Aren't we all guilty of this at some point in our lives?
So tell me if this sounds familiar. You build a few S3 buckets
and maybe a few simple EC2 instances or Lambda functions,
everything is wonderful in the cloud, right?
Wait.
We need more environments.
We need a test environment.
I know, let's duplicate the one we have and rename it.
Ah, that's better.
Now we can test our code.
Wait a second.
We need a staging environment also. Let's duplicate it again.
Wow, that was easy.
This cloud thing is handy.
Oh, wow.
CloudFormation is my new best friend.
We can represent our infrastructure declaratively? Let's build that
new project's infrastructure in CloudFormation.
Hey, boss, we're getting closer to being production ready.
What are we planning on running this on in production? We need a
production stack with complete fault tolerance.
Wait,
what about disaster recovery? In the future, we can get smarter
with multi‑availability zone deployments.
For now, let's stand up a warm standby in another region.
Wow,
our business is going global. Tools like CloudFront look awesome, but for now,
let's stand up that stack in Europe, especially since it's so
easy to deploy that stack with CloudFormation.
Have you experienced this or know someone that has?
By the time you get to this point,
your AWS billing starts to smoke and your development
efficiency slows to a complete crawl.
To wrap up this clip,
I'm going to impress upon you that there are techniques and patterns
in the CDK that can help you avoid this peril.
I'm actually working on a project with a client as we speak that's an
environment management user interface. Instead of mass stacking
resources like this, you choose from a store of constructs that simply
build your environment intelligently.
It then pulls all appropriate construct packages from an npm construct library,
wires them together, and deploys them through a code pipeline instance,
which is, by the way, also built into the CDK on the fly.
The best part is you can come back and add to your environment through the interface when your needs change.